Move DNS, DHCP, and TFTP content to a new guide (#3530)
theforeman/foreman-documentation: guides/common/modules/proc_integrating-a-local-self-managed-dns-service.adoc

[id="integrating-a-local-self-managed-dns-service"]
= Integrating a local self-managed DNS service

The installer exposes a limited feature set for the {Project} installer-managed DNS service.
For example, you can configure only a single forward DNS zone.
As an alternative to the installer-managed DNS service, you can run a DNS server locally on the {Project} or {SmartProxyServer} to bypass these limitations.

Perform the steps on the {ProjectServer} or {SmartProxyServer} that runs the self-managed DNS service.

.Prerequisites
* You installed and configured a DNS service on the {ProjectServer} or {SmartProxyServer} host.
* The DNS service supports link:https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/rfc2136[RFC 2136]-compatible updates

.Procedure
. Set the local, self-managed DNS service on your {ProjectServer} or {SmartProxyServer}:
+
[options="nowrap",subs="+quotes,attributes"]

> ....
> # {foreman-installer} \
> --foreman-proxy-dns true \
> --foreman-proxy-dns-provider nsupdate \
> --foreman-proxy-dns-managed false \
> --foreman-proxy-dns-server "127.0.0.1"
> ....

Reviewer: ```suggestion
----
# {foreman-installer} \
--foreman-proxy-dns true \
--foreman-proxy-dns-provider nsupdate \
--foreman-proxy-dns-managed false \
--foreman-proxy-dns-server "127.0.0.1"
----
```

[id="integrating-a-local-self-managed-dns-service"]

> = Integrating a local, self-managed DNS service

Reviewer 2: unsure about the comma in the heading, AFAIK this would be a first.

Reviewer: I agree it looks a bit off. Would it work without the comma @mmuehlfeldRH?

The installer exposes a limited feature set for the {Project} installer-managed DNS service.
For example, you can configure only a single forward DNS zone.
As an alternative to the installer-managed DNS service, you can run a DNS server locally on the {Project} or {SmartProxyServer} to bypass these limitations.

Perform the steps on the {ProjectServer} or {SmartProxyServer} that runs the self-managed DNS service.

.Prerequisites
* You installed and configured a DNS service on the {ProjectServer} or {SmartProxyServer} host.
* The DNS service supports link:https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/rfc2136[RFC 2136]-compatible updates

.Procedure

> . Set the local, self-managed DNS service in {Project} or {SmartProxy}:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
. Set the local, self-managed DNS service on your {ProjectServer} or {SmartProxyServer}:
```

+
[options="nowrap",subs="+quotes,attributes"]
....
# {foreman-installer} \
--foreman-proxy-dns true \
--foreman-proxy-dns-provider nsupdate \
--foreman-proxy-dns-managed false \
--foreman-proxy-dns-server "127.0.0.1"
....
. For each affected {SmartProxy}, update the configuration of that {SmartProxy} in the {ProjectWebUI}.

> See xref:associating-the-dns-service-with-a-domain-and-subnet[].
> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For more information, see xref:associating-the-dns-service-with-a-domain-and-subnet[].
```
